feat(event/doc): trigger method (#432)
citizenfx/fivem-docs: content/docs/scripting-reference/runtimes/lua/functions/TriggerEvent.md

title: TriggerEvent
---

## What is TriggerEvent?

> `TriggerEvent` is a function in FiveM that allows you to trigger a specified event, optionally passing along additional data. This function is integral for communication within the client-client or server-server scripts, enabling different parts of your resources to interact with each other seamlessly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TriggerEvent` is a function in FiveM that allows you to trigger a specified event, optionally passing along additional data. This function is mainly used for communicating between resources.
```

First, we will create a table that will contains all the events to "bait" the cheater. 

```lua
local eventsBait = {
    'server:giveMoneyToPlayer',
    'server:revivePlayer',
    'server:setPlayerAdmin'
}
```

Note you can add/remove any event you wish to create to "bait" the player. Be careful, the events name cannot be used in any script to avoid confusion. When selecting names, try to get original names that will make the cheater want to try it. Afer this, we will loop the table to create the events. Here's how:

```lua
for _, eventName in ipairs(eventsBait) do
    RegisterServerEvent(eventName)
    AddEventHandler(eventName, function()
        local playerId = source  -- Get the player ID of the source of the event
        local reason = "You have been dropped for triggering a prohibited event"
        print("Dropping player " .. playerId .. " for triggering event: " .. eventName)
        DropPlayer(playerId, reason) -- dropping player
    end)
end

> ```

Reviewer: Security related stuff shouldn't be included here, it is also not related to this documentation at all.

In this example, we created 3 new events that will drop the player (disconnect) and send a message to server console that a prohibited event has been trigger. This is a good place to add a log and ban player.

## Best Practices

1. **Consistent Naming**: Use clear and consistent naming conventions for your events to avoid confusion and make your code more readable.

2. **Minimal Data Passing**: Only pass the necessary data with your events to keep them lightweight and efficient.

3. **Error Handling**: Ensure that your event handlers include error handling to manage any unexpected issues that may arise when processing events.

4. **Documentation**: Document your custom events and their expected parameters to make your code easier to understand and maintain.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This doesn't need a conclusion.

> `TriggerEvent` is a powerful tool in FiveM scripting that helps different parts of your script communicate with each other. By using events and passing data, you can create interactive and responsive gameplay experiences. Whether you're updating player scores, handling user input, or managing game mechanics, `TriggerEvent` helps keep your code organized and efficient. Use it to make your FiveM scripts more modular and responsive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
This feels like buzz-word central, it doesn't add anything over the introduction.
